+*+*
11-14-11


Joe Vinson | November 14, 2011 @ 14:50


Occupiers plan to meet Thursday night and discuss their next move.
Occupy Pensacola bracing for City Hall eviction
First, a quick recap. On October 27, Mayor Hayward said he would no longer tolerate the Occupy Pensacola tents on City Hall’s north lawn, citing Sec. 8-1-7 of City Code that states no structures may be erected on City property without approval of the Mayor and Council. But then the Council went and gave their approval that night, leaving it to the Mayor’s discretion to allow or disallow the tents, until the next Council meeting. Mayor Hayward said in a statement that he would defer to the Council: “Since the Council is the elected, policy-making body of Pensacola, and responsible for the actual adoption and passage of our City Code of Ordinances, I will accept their decision, and inform my staff to proceed according to the wishes of Council with regard to the Occupy Pensacola protestors.”
At last Thursday’s meeting, Councilwoman Sherri Myers questioned the particular ordinance that was invoked, noting that it was first passed in 1968, seemingly in response to the “Resurrection City” that formed in Washington D.C. after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Since the code was not being equally applied to all groups who erect tents on city property, Myers argued, wouldn’t the selective enforcement be considered viewpoint discrimination?
City Administrator Bill Reynolds responded that they would no longer use that ordinance, but rather Sec. 6-3-6, which states, “No person shall place or deposit… in city parks, any article or thing which would obstruct or hinder the safe and convenient use of any part of the park by the general public” without the permission of that department head. That would mean Neighborhood Services Director David Flaherty could remove the tents at any time.
That is, if the City Hall lawn counts as a park. Myers argued that it does not. Indeed, Sec. 6-3-12 of city code specifically includes the north lawn of City Hall in a list of “green spaces, although not designated as public parks by the City of Pensacola, [that] have been made available for group use.”
This morning, one Occupy Pensacola member, who asked not to be identified, said he believed this issue was outside the Mayor’s purview.
“We are here to redress grievances. We have every right to do so,” he said. “Our [U.S.] Constitution is higher than anything Mayor Ashton Hayward has to say. We have to go by what our founding fathers said. Otherwise this is not the country I was given.”
For its part, the Council has put the ball entirely in the Mayor’s court.
“It’s out of the Council’s hands,” Councilwoman Myers said. “We’re not allowed to interfere with his decisions in the day-to-day operation of the City.”
So what is the Mayor’s next move? We’ll probably find out soon.